So, so far all we're testing in this
useBreedList test is an empty array.
Which here carousel,
no carousel, not useBreedList.
That's part of the story, but we want to
test like that it calls the right API
that we get back the right information and
that it presents the user back with the
correct information, if that's the case.
The problem here is that under the hood,
this useBreedList is
using fetchBreedList, and
fetchBreedList is using what?
Fetch.
I don't actually really
want to hit my API, right.
You can imagine a case where like,
everyone's running all their tests and
you're just hammering your production API.
Not a good idea.
It'd be great if we could mock it.
So in general,
I don't suggest mocking too many things.
The one place where I'm like, okay,
you can mock that API request.
I'm okay with you fetch or
mocking fetch, basically.
There's a ton of ways to do this.
I'm just gonna show you
the easy way to mock request.
Just to npm install -D vitest-fetch-mock.
This is very similar to just fetch mock,
0.2.1.
There's other ways to do this,
you can actually just go write a mock for
yourself they're very very
simple pieces of software.
But yolo, I don't like doing it,
so I'm not gonna do it.
And I'm not gonna make you do it.
Okay, inside of test, inside of your
vite.config, Just put setup files.
And we're just gonna make
a setup file really quick.
It's gonna be called ./setupVitest.js.
Okay.
Make a file inside of source called,
as you might have guessed, setupVitest.js.
This is just a file that would get
run before all of your tests get run.
So if you had other
environmental variables to set,
this is where you would do it.
In our particular case,
we're just going to import creatFetchMock
from vitest-fetch-mock.
We're going to import vi from vitest.
There is a const fetchMock
= createFetchMock(vi),
fetchMock.enableMocks.
This is going to now universally enable
mocks on fetch throughout your entire
application.
Your entire test suite is
probably more accurately stated.
I forgot what vi precisely is,
it's the vitest utilities, okay.
So it has things that
createFetchMock goes and
sets all the correct things up for you.
I've never used it directly but
that's exactly what it's doing.
Okay, now we have all that enabled,
we can go back to our tests
here in useBreedList, okay.
Up here next to renderHook, we're going
to grab a function called waitFor,
and then we're going to down here
at the bottom right our test.
So we're gonna write a test,
gives back breeds when given animal.
Okay, and
then we're gonna give a dog which is
going to give us back our function.
This needs to be an async function, okay.
And then just give it a bunch of breeds.
Rather than type all them
I'm just gonna copy and
paste all these breeds that I have here.
But feel free to write your own.
I just grabbed some of them
that I made in the API here so
having to use Bichon Frise and
so on and so forth.
And then with here we're gonna say
fetch.MockResponseOnce, okay.
Here we're just saying next time
fetches called respond with blah.
You can be more specific of like
they must call this particular URL.
We're not gonna be so clever, right.
We're just gonna to say mockResponse,
the next one just blindly
spit this back at them.
Animal, dog and breeds right so
respond with this.
Okay, now we can come up here and
copy and paste this business.
Cuz I don't wanna write all of this again.
And the only difference here is
const result renderHook instead of
giving it an empty string here,
we're gonna give it dog.
Okay, this will give us back our result.
Now we can't just go test this right away
because it's gonna go do fetch, right.
Fetch is not synchronous.
So it's asynchronous.
So we have to wait for it.
Hence waitFor is what we're gonna use.
We're gonna say await waitFor,
then you're gonna give it
a function of what it's waiting on.
So in this case we're gonna give it a test
of expect(result.current[1]).
And if you remember this is a hook,
if we look at let's look at,
let's look at our tests really quick here,
breedList.
The first one is the breed list
the second one is the status.
So we're gonna wait until
the status is success, right.
So let's do that waitFor
result(current [1]) to be success.
So this is gonna wait until
this ends up happening or
until time's out, one of the two things.
And then after that we can say const
breedList = result.current.
And then here I can say
expect(breedList) toEqual(breeds).
Okay, so it's gonna be equal to this,
whatever we got back from the API.
We're gonna expect that to come
backfFrom our useBreedList.
So let's save that let's
look at our tests.
And we got an error, okay,
well that's different.
Well, that is yet a different thing
let's check out what's going on here.
So we have gives back breeds when
given an animal is async function.
Breeds, Fetch mockResponseOnce JSON,
yes that's what it is.
JSON.stringify.
Right this needs to be,
It doesn't give you
back an object it gives you back a string
which then fetch then decodes for you.
There we go.
And now there you go.
That's a passing test.
Okay, so that is how you can
test asynchronous function.
I showed you with regards to hooks and
custom hooks and that kind of stuff.
But that works with components,
that works with anything that you have
to mock fetch with vitest or jest.
We used the vitest mock fetch.
There's also a jest mock fetch
that works precisely the same way.